Keith V. Christian
Golden, Colorado
keithchristian@yahoo.com
(Send email for phone number.)
https://www.linkedin.com/in/keithchristian/


Education:
B.A. Mathematics, Concordia University - Irvine, Ca.
EET (Electronics Technology), DeVry Tech - Atlanta, Ga.


Certificates:
OWASP 10 Requirements (2023.)


Application Development: I have written hundreds of bash, tcl, and expect scripts including a custom KPI gathering system for predictive analytics, host self-diagnosis, and enhanced messaging, to identify physical, virtual, and containerized machines which are trending toward degraded states.
Scripted maintenance routines for Linux servers (Red Hat,) and utility functions with Bash, Expect, TCL, Perl, Awk, etc. to maintain free disk space, throttle file transfers, monitor for lost connectivity, and mitigate DDOS and other threats to systems.
Wrote and deployed two large software projects of approximately 3000 lines of TCL Expect code and Shell scripts for automatically offloading data files to high-capacity storage and analytics systems.


Skillsets:
Linux 20+ years, familiar with Red Hat, Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux.  I can help with OS upgrade projects.
Solaris: 4 years experience in a previous position.
Ansible. Manage devices, collect data for improved performance and reliability.
Bash shell: 20+ years. Hundreds of bash scripts written for automation, disk clean up, system monitoring, etc.
Korn shell: 5 years.  I have written ksh scripts written for legacy systems not equipped with other shells.
MySQL, 1 year.  Write SQL queries, export data from MySQL, clean data for importation into PostgreSQL.
PostgreSQL, 1 year. Automated data imports from MySQL, write SQL queries, create reports for further automation.
Expect, TCL, Shell, Perl, GNU toolset, standard Unix utilities.  Well versed with all commonly used Unix tools, can solve many infrastructure and common problems with combinations or single tools.
Broadworks VoIP platform.
Ping, traceroute, nmap, wireshark, tcpdump, essential tools for managing and monitoring networks.
SMTP / POP3: High Availability Sendmail / Surgemail clusters, I can help companies that manage their own email infrastructure.
DNS: BIND, Configuration and Zone setup, geographically redundant DNS servers.
Mediawiki, Very powerful Wiki software which powers Wikipedia and large corporate internal wikis.
Nagios.  Can monitor a large number of networked devices.


Bare Metal and Hardware, Current:
I performed remote maintenance in Lumen's Edge Computing Lab when "remote hands" were not available.
Dell Poweredge nodes, iDrac RACADM scripting.
Supermicro blades, IPMI, SMASH scripting.
HP DL3XX hpiLO, IPMI, SMASH scripting.


Windows Server:
1 year equivalent experience spread across 20 years in IT.


Web:
Proficient with HTML, CSS.
Familar with the Apache web server.
Created a website for a non-profit from scratch with Linux, Apache and PHP, chose hosting provider and successfully deployed it.


Security and Recent Project History:
Detect and block DDOS attacks at the host system.
Throttle data transfers to avoid network and CPU saturation, and similar use cases.
Mitigated DDOS and scans with fail2ban, along with a custom blocking package written in an afternoon, based on tcpdump and iptables, and the GNU toolset.


Fail2ban: Helps prevent systems from being compromised from outside actors. Stops inbound high frequency scans within a few seconds of appearance. I know how to finesse Fail2ban's configuration files for best reliability.
Analyze/filter/block IP traffic utilizing shell, tcpdump and iptables.


PostgreSQL:
Proficient with installing and configuring Postgres.
Working experience with SQL queries.
Understand backup procedures.
Configure logging.
Designing tables, assigning proper data types, creating indexes.
Facilitate data conversion between MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.


Westat, Incorporated (Contract position, short term) Feb 2024 - Current,
Linux System Administrator, Mailman List Server Technical SME Administrator
Research and document  upgrade from Mailman v2.1 to Mailman 3.


Charter Communications (Contract position, short term) Nov 2023 - Jan 2024,
DNS Engineer -System Engineer III - DNS Engineering Lab
Maintain VMWare virtual instances for DNS testing with firmware and OS updates, administrate Nagios monitoring system.


Lumen Technologies Edge Compute Lab Team (Contract position) Jan 2023 - Oct 2023,
Site Reliability Engineer and DevOps
Became familiar with SRE operations including Metal-as-a-Service installation and readiness techniques.
Fiber optic, and CAT-5 / 6, blade maintenance on Supermicro and Dell servers installation, and:
Installing and troubleshooting fiber optics,  SFP modules.
Tracing fiber runs with laser and power level testing equipment.
Manually tracing cables and fiber runs.


Comcast Nov 2007 - Dec 2022, Senior Engineer, Engineering Operations
Maintained Linux servers (Red Hat,) created custom scripts to enhance system efficiency using Bash, Expect, TCL, Perl, and Awk to maintain free disk space, throttle file transfers, monitor for lost connectivity, and mitigate DDOS and other threats to systems.
Designed, installed, upgraded, and supported TCP/IP based networks at multiple sites to remove severe congestion with combinations of router based LAN subnets, multiple server interfaces, full- duplex Fast Ethernet between dedicated switch ports to the desktop, and FDDI fiber rings.
Monitored all UNIX/Linux and Windows servers using NAGIOS
Built and Configured Apache Web Server with MYSQL and PHP
Designed, and implemented a concurrent application that supports multiple systems in C/TCP/IP/IPC/PERL (socket and message queue) in UNIX.
Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker. Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for
the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy.
Building and managing load-balanced web server clusters with Apache, PHP, and Virtual Hosting


American Express (Contract position)  Dec 2003 - Nov 2007, - Linux Systems Admin / Systems Programmer
Financial Systems Production Support: Lead Solaris / Red Hat Linux System Administrator. Provided 24x7 support for Financial applications on Windows / Solaris / Linux. Platforms were built upon Apache Tomcat, Java, Websphere MQ (MQSeries) or other standard frameworks.
Application Migration: Assisted in migrating approximately 100 applications to a remote data center.


Agilent Technologies (Contract position)  Jun 2002 - Apr 2003, - Application Support / Linux Systems Engineer, Web Programming
Parts Catalog: eBusiness platform, Server side and client side Javascript, HTML, CSS, Oracle on Solaris.
XO Communications (Full Time) 2000 - 2001, - Linux Systems Engineer / Web Programmer
Website Programming using the Broadvision platform, e911 engineer.


Toshiba America Information Systems (Full Time)  1995 - 2000,  Linux Engineer, Web Programmer , Product Support
Website development:  Toshiba's eBusiness and eSupport website. Solaris, Red Hat Linux, MS SQL Server.


A PostgreSQL Case Story:
PostgreSQL was set up on the same system as the MySQL instance, whose task was collecting csv data from a cablemodem monitoring system.  To facilitate easy PostgreSQL imports from MySQL, I wrote several scripts along with a cron job to dump MySQL data to a csv file.  The data needed a bit of clean up before importation into PostgreSQL, so I wrote additional scripts to be sure the data was clean.  Using Expect and PSQL, tables were created for all six data sets with custom names and data types to match the incoming csv data.  At this point, the PostgreSQL db was ready to be queried by technicians responsible for managing the cablemodem fleet.  Several SQL queries determining frequencies, minimums and maximums were created and made available to technicians.
PostgreSQL backups were created using pg_dump.  Backups were verified regularly with a pg_restore to a different pg instance.


What sets Keith Christian apart from the rest?
20+ years of Linux System Administration and coding skills.
I excel at tracking down problems in infrastructure that are missed by monitoring systems.
If a particular parameter isn't monitored, I generally find a way to do so.
I create custom scripts that look for and report changes in filesystems such as gargantuan space-consuming crash dumps, Java coredumps, and more.
My scripts can analyze files and delete or move files to increase disk space on the affected drive or partition.
To avoid needless human intervention, most of my tested, targeted maintenance scripts are set to run as a cron job so that the solution requires minimal, or no, human intervention.
For urgent and fast processing of massive datasets or quick automation jobs, I am proficient with shell script parallelization.
I know how to develop, debug, and deploy emergency fixes or other code on production devices IF no QA environments are available (e.g. architectures where expensive applications and hardware make production the only available environment.)


Updated: Aug 2024.

